= MediaInfo-Ruby

== About MediaInfo-Ruby

MediaInfo-Ruby is a gem to use the mediainfolib libraries from http://mediainfo.sourceforge.net directly.

== Building MediaInfo-Ruby

To build, simply make sure you have built mediainfolib and the rice gem (mediainfolib is in c++) and installed them successfully, and also make sure the sources are in a place where the gem can get to them (/usr/local/src/mediainfolib is a good choice), then do:

  gem install mediainfo-ruby

== Running the specs

If you do development on this gem, to test that it built correctly, put some videos on spec/fixtures and run the specs.

== Using MediaInfo-Ruby

Using MediaInfo-Ruby is simple. Just initialize the MediaInfoLib::MediaInfo class and start poking around:

	# load the library
	require 'mediainfo-ruby'

	mediainfo = MediaInfoLib::MediaInfo.new
	mediainfo.open("/path/to/my/video.mov")
	begin
		mediainfo.streams # 2
		mediainfo.option_definitions # A giant map with instructions on each option
		mediainfo.introspect # Asks and returns a giant map with all the options
	finally
		mediainfo.close
	end

We'll add more rubyisms as we feel they are needed, but so far that's all. You can go lower level and call the MediaInfo library directly by using the methods that have been surfaced (option, state_get, count_get, etc)

== building on gentoo

The mediainfo package works in general just fine, but forgets to install the headers for the language bindings. After installing mediainfo via 'emerge media-video/mediainfo' and 'libmediainfo' the headers must be placed in the appropriate location. To do so unpack the gentoo package and copy the directory MediaInfoLib/Source/MediaInfoDLL to /usr/include.
or you can find them [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B3gVhdOy8u3oR3YyRnhxNVRpb1E/edit?usp=sharing)

== Mac OSX notes

If you have a pre-snow leopard OSX, you need to remove the x86_64 archflags that the extconf.rb adds. Patches appreciated.

Building mediainfolib on OSX is a bit challenging. I went the CMake route and had to do some changes. It worked but it put the libs directly on /usr/local (not on /usr/local/lib) and it didn't put any includes on /usr/local/include. I manually moved the libraries to /usr/local/lib and added code to check for the mediainfolib directory on /usr/local/src. It also listens to the environment variable MEDIAINFO_DIR which it uses to find its header files.
